RFC: spellcheck and alike global attributes (#21)
salesforce/lwc-rfcs: text/0000-spellcheck-global-attribute.md

---

> title: Support for spellcheck and alike global attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Spellcheck Attribute
```

status: DRAFTED

> created_at: 2019

Reviewer: ```suggestion
created_at: 2019/11/15
updated_at: 2019/11/20
pr: https://github.com/salesforce/lwc-rfcs/pull/21
```

---

# Support for spellcheck and alike global attributes.

> ### related Issue: https://github.com/salesforce/lwc/issues/1595

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Backpointers

 * related issue: https://github.com/salesforce/lwc/issues/1595
```

## Summary

> When setting the attribute `spellcheck` of a **custom element** in a component template, the rendered element does not reflect the attribute properly. This proposal introduces support `spellcheck` and alike global attributes when used in LWC custom elements.

Reviewer: reflect the attribute properly => reflect the attribute into the dom.

Reviewer: support `spellcheck` => support for `spellcheck`

---
title: Spellcheck Attribute
status: DRAFTED
created_at: 2019/11/15
updated_at: 2019/11/20
pr: https://github.com/salesforce/lwc-rfcs/pull/21
---

# Support for spellcheck and alike global attributes.

## Summary

> When setting the attribute `spellcheck` of a **custom element** in a component template, the rendered element does not reflect correctly the attribute into the DOM. This proposal introduces support for `spellcheck` and alike global attributes when used in LWC custom elements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When setting the `spellcheck` attribute of a **custom element** in a component template to `"false"`, the rendered attribute value is `"true"`, which is incorrect.
```

### Static Values:

In the case of static values, the solution is simple:

> When compiling the template, we can check if the `spellcheck` attribute is being set to a string value, and normalize its value to boolean.

With this solution Table A becomes:

|Value\Rendered Element	|textarea	|c-foo	|textarea.spellcheck / c-foo.spellcheck	|
|---	|---	|---	|---	|
|`""`	|spellcheck	|spellcheck="true"	|true / true	|
|`"false"` (case insensitive)	|spellcheck="false"	|spellcheck="false"	|false / false	|
|`"any other string"`	|spellcheck="any other string"	|spellcheck="true"	|true / true	|

### Dynamic Values (via template expressions):

This case is more complicated because of all the invariants that it involves, but we can group them in 2 general cases that can be handled differently for custom elements:

```html
<template>
  <c-foo spellcheck={expr}></c-foo> <!-- should reflect the attribute depending on the value of {expr} -->
</template>
```

1. `expr == null` (`expr` result is `null` or `undefined`) This is the more complicated code-path, and the one that deserves more attention: 

>     1. Given that we always set the property, the attribute is always going to be set to `true` or `false` 

Reviewer 3: >  Given that we always set the property

What if we were to change this invariant, to handle this case? Only set it the spellcheck property when it is not `null` or `undefined` ?

Author: then what will happen in such case that the expression changes from `true`/`false` to `null` or `undefined`?

Reviewer 3: In this case we would invoke `removeAttribute`.

Reviewer: no @pmdartus, remember that the main point here is that it MUST be a prop because we don't know if you have redefined that in your component via `@api spellcheck`, in which case you, as the author of the component, are in control.

Reviewer 3: Yes, you are right.

>     2. Since the spellcheck attribute is **true-by-default**, for `undefined` or `null`, we will set it to boolean `true`.

Reviewer 2: The default value seems to depend on a combination of user agent and element.
